.\"
.\" libhsync -- dynamic caching and delta update in HTTP
.\" $Id$
.\" 
.\" Copyright (C) 2000 by Martin Pool <mbp@humbug.org.au>
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" Lesser General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
.\" License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH hsmdfour 1 "$Date$" 
.SH NAME
hsmdfour \- generate MD4 checksum
.SH SYNOPSYS
.nf 
.B hsmdfour [-b \fIlength\fP ] 
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBhsmdfour\fP generates the MD4 checksum of the file on standard
input.  The hexidecimal form of the checksum is written to stdout.
.PP
This program exists for testing the MD4 algorithm in
\fBlibhsync(2)\fP.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-b
Read input in blocks of the specified size.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR libhsync "(2), " libhsyncinfo "(1)"
.SH BUGS
There are cryptographic problems with MD4, and so it is no longer
recommended for new applications.  It is used in \fBhsync\fP because
it is not security-critical and the performance is better than MD5 or
SHA-1.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Martin Pool <mbp@humbug.org.au>
