== image:./images/logo.png[rdiff-backup] rdiff-backup

=== Reverse differential backup tool, over a network or locally.

[[pages]]
link:docs/docs.html[__ Documentation]
https://github.com/rdiff-backup/rdiff-backup/releases[__ Download]
https://github.com/rdiff-backup/rdiff-backup[__ View on GitHub]

'''''

[[main_content]]
== link:#rdiff-backup-is-reverse-differential-backup[[.octicon .octicon-link]##]rdiff-backup is reverse differential backup

Rdiff-backup backs up one directory to another, possibly over a network.
The target directory ends up a copy of the source directory, but extra
reverse diffs are stored in a special subdirectory of that target
directory, so you can still recover files lost some time ago. The idea
is to combine the best features of a mirror and an incremental backup.
Rdiff-backup also preserves subdirectories, hard links, dev files,
permissions, uid/gid ownership (if it is running as root), modification
times, acls, eas, resource forks, etc. Finally, rdiff-backup can operate
in a bandwidth efficient manner over a pipe, like rsync. Thus you can
use rdiff-backup and ssh to securely back a hard drive up to a remote
location, and only the differences will be transmitted.

== link:#usage[[.octicon .octicon-link]##]Usage

The link:docs/examples.html[documentation] contains use cases and
explanations about how to use rdiff-backup.

== link:#support-or-contact[[.octicon .octicon-link]##]Support or Contact

Please use the
https://github.com/rdiff-backup/rdiff-backup/issues[GitHub issue
tracker]. The
https://lists.nongnu.org/mailman/listinfo/rdiff-backup-users[mailing
list] will also remain active for the time being.

== link:#usage[[.octicon .octicon-link]##]History

Rdiff-backup has been around for almost 20 years now and has proved to
be a very solid solution for backups and it is still unique in its model
of unlimited incrementals with no need to space consuming regular full
backups.

Current lead developers are Eric Lavarde, Patric Dufresene and Otto
Kek채l채inen. Full list of core developers available at
https://github.com/rdiff-backup/rdiff-backup/graphs/contributors[rdiff-backup
Github page] and on the link:credits.html[credits page].

The original author and maintainer was *Ben Escoto* from 2001 to 2005.
Key contributors from 2005 to 2016 were Dean Gaudet, Andrew Ferguson and
Edward Ned Harvey. After some hibernation time Sol1 took over the
stewardship of rdiff-backup from February 2016 but there were no new
releases. In August 2019 https://www.lavar.de/[Eric Lavarde] with the
support of Otto Kek채l채inen from https://seravo.com/[Seravo] and Patrik
Dufresne from http://www.patrikdufresne.com/en/minarca/[Minarca] took
over, completed the Python 3 rewrite and finally released rdiff-backup
2.0 in March 2020.

rdiff-backup is maintained by
https://github.com/rdiff-backup[rdiff-backup] +
This page was generated by https://pages.github.com[GitHub Pages].
Tactile theme by https://twitter.com/jasonlong[Jason Long].
