.TH RDIFF-BACKUP-STATISTICS 1 "{{ month_year }}" "Version {{ version }}" "User Manuals" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
rdiff-backup-statistics \- summarize rdiff-backup statistics files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rdiff-backup-statistics
.BI [\-\-begin-time " time" ]
.BI [\-\-end-time " time" ]
.BI [\-\-minimum-ratio " ratio" ]
.B [\-\-null-separator]
.B [\-\-quiet]
.I repository

.SH DESCRIPTION
.BI rdiff-backup-statistics
reads the matching statistics files in a backup repository made by
.B rdiff-backup
and prints some summary statistics to the screen.  It does not alter
the repository in any way.

The required argument is the pathname of the root of an rdiff-backup
repository.  For instance, if you ran "rdiff-backup in out", you could
later run "rdiff-backup-statistics out".

The output has two parts.  The first is simply an average of the all
matching session_statistics files.  The meaning of these fields is
explained in the FAQ included in the package, and also at
.IR https://www.nongnu.org/rdiff-backup/FAQ.html#statistics .

The second section lists some particularly significant files
(including directories).  These files are either contain a lot of
data, take up increment space, or contain a lot of changed files.  All
the files that are above the minimum ratio (default 5%) will be
listed.

If a file or directory is listed, its contributions are subtracted
from its parent.  That is why the percentage listed after a directory
can be larger than the percentage of its parent.  Without this, the
root directory would always be the largest, and the output would be
boring.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-begin-time " time"
Do not read statistics files older than
.IR time .
By default, all statistics files will be read.
.I time
should be in the same format taken by \-\-restore-as-of.  (See
.B TIME FORMATS
in the rdiff-backup man page for details.)
.TP
.BI \-\-end-time " time"
Like
.B \-\-begin-time
but exclude statistics files later than
.IR time .
.TP
.BI \-\-minimum-ratio " ratio"
Print all directories contributing more than the given ratio to the
total.  The default value is .05, or 5 percent.
.TP
.B \-\-null-separator
Specify that the lines of the file_statistics file are separated by
nulls (\\0).  The default is to assume that newlines separate.  Use
this switch if rdiff-backup was run with the \-\-null-separator when
making the given repository.
.TP
.B \-\-quiet
Suppress printing of the "Processing statistics from session..."
output lines.

.SH BUGS
When aggregating multiple statistics files, some directories above
(but close to) the minimum ratio may not be displayed.  For this
reason, you may want to set the minimum-ratio lower than need.

.SH AUTHOR
Ben Escoto <ben@emerose.org>, based on original script by Dean Gaudet.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rdiff-backup (1),
.BR python (1).
The rdiff-backup web page is at
.IR https://rdiff-backup.net/ .
